﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿# Git Work-flowGitflow is branching model for Git. It has attracted a lot of attention because it is very well suited to collaboration and scaling the development team.## How it works:1).New development (new features, non-emergency bug fixes) are built in feature branches:2).Feature branches are branched off of the develop branch, and finished features and fixes are merged back into the develop branch when they’re ready for release:3)When it is time to make a release, a release branch is created off of develop:4)The code in the release branch is deployed onto a suitable test environment, tested, and any problems are fixed directly in the release branch.And finally the deploy-test-fix-redeploy-retest continues till the release is good enough to release to customers. Also when the release is finished the release is merged into master and into develop too, to make sure that any changes made in the release branch aren’t accidentally lost by new development.The master branch tracks released code only. The only commits to master are merges from release branches and hotfix branches. Hotfix branches are used to create emergency fixes.They are branched directly from a tagged release in the master branch, and when finished are merged back into both master and develop to make sure that the hotfix isn’t accidentally lost when the next regular release occurs.## Git Commands:* **Repository**-A Git repository is the .git/ folder inside a project. This repository tracks all changes made to files in your project, building a history over time.So basically it is the place where all the project files are stored.    Steps to create repo:    1).In the upper-right corner of any page, click , and then click New repository.    2).Type a short, memorable name for your repository.    3).Optionally, add a description of your repository.    4).Choose to make the repository either public or private.    5).Select Initialize this repository with a README.       6).Click Create repository.* **Clone**-Git clone is primarily used to point to an existing repo and make a clone or copy of that repo at in a new directory, at another location. The original repository can be located on the local filesystem or on remote machine accessible supported protocols.    example: git clone "link of the repo from GITHUB"* **Fork**-A fork is a copy of a repository. Forking a repository allows you to freely experiment with changes without affecting the original project. Most commonly, forks are used to either propose changes to someone else's project or to use someone else's project as a starting point for your own idea.       How it works:Forking is a git clone operation executed on a server copy of a projects repo.You create a new feature branch in your local repo. Work is done to complete the new feature and git commit is executed to save the changes. You then push the new feature branch to your remote forked repo.* **Branch**-Git object data for multiple commits. A branch in Git is simply a lightweight movable pointer to one of these commits. The default branch name in Git is master. As you initially make commits, you're given a master branch that points to the last commit you made.    Example: git branch team:-It creates a new branch named team.* **Commit**-git commit. The "commit" command is used to save your changes to the local repository. Exchanging commits has to be performed manually and explicitly (with the "git fetch", "git pull", and "git push" commands).* **Merge**-This command is used by git pull to incorporate changes from another repository and can be used by hand to merge changes from one branch into another. The second syntax (" git merge --abort ") can only be run after the merge has resulted in conflicts.* **Checkout**-The git checkout command lets you navigate between the branches created by git branch . Checking out a branch updates the files in the working directory to match the version stored in that branch, and it tells Git to record all new commits on that branch.    Example: git checkout team:-This will point to team branch now instead of it's old place. * **Pull**-git pull is a Git command used to update the local version of a repository from a remote. It is one of the four commands that prompts network interaction by Git. By default, git pull does two things. Updates the current local working branch (currently checked out branch)* **Push**-The git push command is used to upload local repository content to a remote repository. Pushing is how you transfer commits from your local repository to a remote repo. It's the counterpart to git fetch , but whereas fetching imports commits to local branches, pushing exports commits to remote branches.* **Remote Add**-The git remote add command takes two arguments:   * A remote name, for example, origin   * A remote URL, for example, https://github.com/user/repo.git* **Master Branch**-A branch is essentially is a unique set of code changes with a unique name. Each repository can have one or more branches. The main branch — the one where all changes eventually get merged back into, and is called master.* **Status**-It identifies the files which are not pushed to the main repository.    Example: git status     [image](image/task Image WSD.png)