﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿* **  * **VI**In the command mode, every character typed is a command that does something to the text file being edited; a character typed in the command mode may even cause the vi editor to enter the insert mode. In the insert mode, every character typed is added to the text in the file; pressing the <Esc> (Escape) key turns off the Insert mode and press :wq to come out of vi mode**example**vi example.txt* **CD**cd command is known as change directory command. It is used to change current working directory.**example**cd desktop* **MKDIR**mkdir command in Linux allows the user to create directories (also referred to as folders in some operating systems ). This command can create multiple directories at once as well as set the permissions for the directories. It is important to note that the user executing this command must have enough permissions to create a directory in the parent directory, or he/she may recieve a ‘permission denied’ error.**example**mkdir  [directories ...]* **CP**cp stands for copy. This command is used to copy files or group of files or directory. It creates an exact image of a file on a disk with different file name. cp command require at least two filenames in its arguments. **example**cp [OPTION] Source Destinationcp [OPTION] Source Directorycp [OPTION] Source-1 Source-2 Source-3 Source-n Directory* **PWD**pwd stands for Print Working Directory. It prints the path of the working directory, starting from the root.**example**pwd* **mv**mv stands for move. mv is used to move one or more files or directories from one place to another in file system like UNIX.No additional space is consumed on a disk during renaming. This command normally works silently means no prompt for confirmation.**example**mv source destination